PREVIOUSLY ON "SALEM"...
John: ISAAC?
Isaac:
ISAAC THE FORNICATOR.
COMING HOME TO SALEM
TO GET OUT OF THE WAR
IS LIKE JUMPING IN THE OCEAN
TO GET OUT OF THE RAIN.
Isaac:
YOU CAN'T LEAVE SALEM JUST YET.
SOMETHING YOU'VE GOT TO SEE.
Mr. Hale:
SOMEONE BROKE OUR CIRCLE.
Mary: WHO SAW US?
Mr. Hale: I DO NOT KNOW.
Mary:
I WAITED FOR YOU.
YEARS AND YEARS.
John: COME WITH ME.
Mary:
I CAN'T. IT'S IMPOSSIBLE.
Tituba:
THE GRAND RITE HAS BEGUN,
AND THE EARTH
CRIES OUT FOR INNOCENT BLOOD.
Mary: I KNOW WELL MY DUTIES.
George: THE ONLY THING
THAT KEEPS ME ALIVE
IS THE LOOK ON YOUR FACE
WHEN JOHN ALDEN
FINDS OUT WHAT YOU REALLY ARE.
Bridget: [ SCREAMING ]
Anne:
FATHER, YOU KNOW BRIDGET.
HOW COULD YOU
THINK HER GUILTY OF THIS?
Mr. Hale: IT ISN'T
A MATTER OF WHAT I THINK.
WHAT A MESS
YOU'VE MADE OF THINGS.
Bridget: [ GASPING ]
Anne: [ SOBBING ]
Mary: I DON'T WANT YOU HERE.
John: I ALMOST BELIEVE YOU.
[ INSECTS CHIRPING ]
John: YOU'RE SO BEAUTIFUL.
Cotton: "FEAR NO MAN'S WAR,
FOR ONLY A WAR FROM HELL
COULD DESTROY SALEM."
THE DEVIL WAS NEVER GOING TO LET
A PROMISED LAND BE BUILT HERE
WITHOUT A BA'I'I'LE.
Mary: DO YOU KNOW WHAT
KILLED NEARLY EVERY
WOMAN BURIED HERE? LOVE.
Cotton: AND WITCHES ARMED
WITH DEADLY MALICE...
Mary: MOST DIED IN CHILDBIRTH.
SO LOVE IS TO A WOMAN...
Cotton: ...ARE THE MOST
MALIGNANT AND INSIDIOUS
WEAPONS IN THAT BATTLE...
Mary:
...WHAT WAR IS TO A MAN.
THE MOST DEADLY THING,
THEY'LL DO.
Cotton: ...THAT WAR FOR THE BODY
AND THE SOUL OF A NATION.
Mary: ONLY A FOOL RUNS
QUICKLY TO WAR...
Cotton:
IMAGINE A FOE YOU CAN'T SEE...
-Mary: ...OR LOVE.
-Cotton: ...ARMED WITH
-WEAPONS UNKNOWN...
-Mary: I CAN TEACH YOU...
Cotton: ...AND THE ABILITY
TO APPEAR AS ANYONE.
Mary: ...ABOUT LIFE AND DEATH
AND MANY THINGS IN BETWEEN.
Anne: STOP IT!
JUST STOP IT! STOP.
John:Shh.
JUDGE NOT, LEST YE BE JUDGED.
Anne: [ GASPS ]
[ WATER SPLASHES ]
[ INDISTINCT SHOUTING ]
[ "CUPID CARRIES A GUN" PLAYS ]
* POUND ME THE WITCH DRUMS
* WITCH DRUMS
* THE WITCH DRUMS
* BETTER PRAY FOR HELL
* NOT HALLELUJAH
[ INDISTINCT SHOUTING ]
Man: BURN IN HELL!
[ SHOUTING CONTINUES ]
Woman: SIN!
Isaac:
BE ASSURED, MRS. BRIDGET --
ONES THAT ARE WEEPIN'
FAR OUTNUMBER THE ONES
THAT MIGHT SPIT OR CURSE.
Man: BURN IN HELL! BURN!
[ INDISTINCT SHOUTING ]
Tituba: YOU WOULD DO WELL
TO PAY THAT BOY EXTRA
TO TAKE THEM BODIES
A MORE CIRCUITOUS ROUTE.
Mary: SPECTACLE
IS FUEL FOR OUR FIRE.
Tituba: AND DOUBT IS INDULGED
BY THE RICH AND SPOILED ONLY.
MIND THAT YOU WAS BORN NEITHER.
Woman: "GIVE ME TO DIE WITH THEE
THAT I MAY RISE TO A NEW LIFE,
"FOR I WISH TO BE AS DEAD
AND BURIED TO SIN,
TO SELFISHNESS..."
Mary:
BY ALL MEANS, REVEREND --
DO NOT OFFER PRAYER OR COMFORT
OR WORDS OF ENCOURAGEMENT.
NO, STAND AS A BEWILDERED STATUE
AMONGST THE PEOPLE OF SALEM
AND OFFER THEM
ABSOLUTELY NOTHING.
Cotton:
WHAT WOULD YOU HAVE ME DO?
Mary:
WHAT I BROUGHT YOU HERE TO DO.
GUIDE AND SUPPORT US
IN OUR GREAT HOUR OF NEED.
WARM OUR HEARTS
WITH YOUR WORDS OF WISDOM.
ASSURE US IT IS GOD'S WILL WE DO
IN FERRETING OUT THE DEVIL.
OR AT THE VERY, VERY LEAST...
PRAY.
Mr. Hale: TRAGIC DAY.
Mary: TRAGIC BUT NECESSARY.
Mr. Hale:
TRAGICALLY NECESSARY.
SURELY, THE GRIEVING
OF THE MASSES GIVES YOU PAUSE.
Mary: MOST SPIT AND CURSE
WHILE SUMMONING
THE BURNING FLAMES OF HELL.
Mr. Hale:
THERE ARE ALSO THOSE
WHO WEEP FOR HER
AND FIND HER HANGING UNFOUNDED.
Mary: NOT ENOUGH
TO DIVERT OUR INTENTIONS.
A PANIC'S SUCCESS RELIES
ON ITS ESCALATION.
THE GRAND RITE HAS BEGUN.
WE LOOK TO OUR NEXT VICTIM.
Mr. Hale: AND THATI DISAGREE,
THAT I STRENUOUSLY
AND MOST VEHEMENTLY OPPOSE
MEANS NOTHING TO YOU?
WE WERE SEEN AT OUR SABBAT.
AND YOU THROW CAUTION
TO THE WIND.
Mary: AND HAVE YOU IDENTIFIED
WHO SAW US?
PERHAPS YOUR DISAGREEMENTS
AND VEHEMENT OPPOSITION
MIGHT HOLD MORE WEIGHT
IF YOU COULD BE RELIED ON
TO COMPLETE A SIMPLE TASK.
GOOD DAY, HALE.
[ INDISTINCT SHOUTING ]
Cotton:
WHAT MUST I DO TO BE SAVED?
IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO ASK
A MORE WEIGHTY QUESTION.
LEST WE PERISH ETERNALLY.
John: HOW DOES IT FEEL?
Cotton: HOW DOES WHAT FEEL?
John: KILLING TWO INNOCENTS
IN AS MANY DAYS.
Cotton: THE EVIDENCE
AGAINST MISS BISHOP --
Woman: THE ORPHANAGE! HELP!
THEY'RE LOOTING THE ORPHANAGE!
[ GLASS SHATTERS ]
Anne: GIVE IT BACK!
IT'S NOT YOURS!
[ BABY CRYING ]
GIVE IT --
John:
NEXT ONE'S TO YOUR HEAD.
[ CHILDREN CRYING ]
ARE YOU OKAY?
Anne:
IT'S AWFUL. IT'S TOO AWFUL.
Mr. Hale: W-WHAT'S HAPPENED?
John: THIEVES HAVE COME
TO RANSACK THE ORPHANAGE
NOW THAT THE TOWN SEES FIT
TO HANG ITS GUARDIAN.
Mr. Hale: EASY, SON.
John: THIS IS WHAT COMES
OF YOUR WITCH PANIC.
Mr. Hale: ARE YOU ALL RIGHT?
Anne: THIS IS YOUR FAULT!
AND HIS.
Mr. Hale: [ SIGHS ] FORGIVE HER.
SHE'S DISTRAUGHT.
Anne: I'M RIGHT!
SEE ME HOME.
Mr. Hale: CAPTAIN,
IF YOU WOULDN'T MIND, HMM?
John: YES. OF COURSE.
Anne:
WHERE HAVE THEY TAKEN HER?
John: FOUL SPOT
WHERE THEY REST THE UNWANTED.
Anne: IS IT VERY TERRIBLE?
John: YES.
[ BELL TOLLING ]
Anne: THANK YOU...
FOR YOUR HEROISM
AND YOUR CANDOR.
[ HORSE WHINNIES ]
[ DOOR OPENS ]
Petrus: [ LAUGHS ]
WELCOME, WELCOME, WELCOME!
A CUP OF TEA?
-A TOUCH OF PORT?
-Mr. Hale: NO TIME.
WHO SAW US IN THE WOODS?
Petrus:
IT WAS...HE WHO IS MARKED.
HE OF THE "F"
THAT FURROWS HIS BROW.
-Mr. Hale: ISAAC?
-Petrus: THE FORNICATOR.
Mr. Hale: THE IDIOT.
Petrus: ONE MORE THING.
ISAAC WAS NOT ALONE.
Mr. Hale:
WHO ELSE WAS WITH HIM?
Petrus: I DON'T KNOW.
I COULD NOT MAKE OUT THE FACE.
Mr. Hale: YOU DON'T KNOW.
WHAT GOOD ARE YOU?
A SEER WHO CAN'T SEE.
Petrus:
IT'S NOT AN EXACT ART.
Mr. Hale: EVIDENTLY NOT.
Petrus: [ CHUCKLES ]
John: HELLO?
[ METAL SCRAPING ]
[ CROW CAWS ]
HELLO?
[ DOG GROWLING ]
[ SNARLING ]
[ GRUNTS ]
[ BREATHING HEAVILY ]
John:
WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT PLACE?
Mr. Hale:
THE SHACK BELONGS TO PETRUS,
AN EXPERT ON CREATURES
BOTH FERAL AND OTHERWISE.
John: YEAH, WELL, THEY LOOKED
DEAD...UNTIL THEY DIDN'T.
Mr. Hale: NO DEAD ANIMAL
COULD THREATEN A STORIED SOLDIER
SUCH AS YOURSELF, CAPTAIN.
John: IT COULD, IF POWERED
BY FORCES WE DON'T UNDERSTAND.
-Mr. Hale: SUCH AS?
-John: WITCHCRAFI'.
-Mr. Hale: NONSENSE.
-John: IS IT?
YOU KNOW HIM WELL, THIS PETRUS?
Mr. Hale: YOU'LL FIND NO MAN
MORE ORDINARY THAN PETRUS.
TO SAY THAT HE'S MUNDANE
IS TO OVERSTATE HIS PASSION.
John: AND WHAT ORDINARY TASK
BROUGHT YOU DEEP INTO THE FOREST
TO SEEK HIS MUNDANE COUNSEL?
Mr. Hale: EASY, SON...
OR I MIGHT SUSPECT
YOUR PRESENCE HERE
AS MORE THAN A COINCIDENCE,
THAT, PERHAPS,
FOR REASONS OF YOUR OWN
ABOUT WHICH I'M SURE
YOU'D RATHER I NOT INQUIRE,
YOU MIGHT HAVE FOLLOWED ME HERE.
AND WHAT A SHAME...
TO HAVE SUSPICION
OVERTAKE THE GRACE I OWE
FOR THE KINDNESS
YOU SHOWED MY DAUGHTER.
John: CONSIDER IT REPAID.
Mr. Hale: GOOD.
George: [ GAGGING ]
Mary: GEORGE, REALLY.
[ SCOFFS ]
YOU ARE WORSE THAN A CHILD.
George: [ GROANS ]
Mary: HE SERVES AT MY BEHEST,
NOT YOURS.
HE WON'T COME OUT FOR YOU.
OHH.
THERE, THERE, LITTLE MAN.
OH, PAY THE BEAST NO MIND.
REST NOW, AND I'LL SEE
TO YOUR FEEDING LATER.
Tituba: ISAAC'S BRUNG
THE MASTER'S POTIONS.
Mary: TELL HIM TO WAIT.
[ SIGHS ]
OHH, GEORGE.
YOUR NIGHTDRESS
THOROUGHLY DRENCHED IN SICK.
STEW IN THAT FOR THE DAY,
MY SWEET.
George: [ GURGLES ]
Isaac: FOR MR. SIBLEY.
Mary:
OH, AND NOT A MOMENT TOO SOON.
JUST NOW,
HE SUFFERED A FIT OF SORTS.
Isaac: IF YOU DON'T MIND ME
SAYING SO, MA'AM,
IT'S A BURDEN YOU'VE TOOK ON --
A BURDEN AND LOAD, CARRIED OUT
WITHOUT CRY OR COMPLAINT.
Mary: MY BURDENS CAN'T COMPARE
TO THAT OF SALEM ITSELF.
HOW DO YOU FIND THE SPIRITS
ON THE SQUARE?
Isaac:
LOW, MA'AM. AWFUL LOW.
Mary: PERHAPS THERE IS SOLACE
TO BE FOUND
IN REMEMBRANCE OF TIMES WHEN
WE'VE BOTH SHOULDERED WORSE.
WHO COULD HAVE IMAGINED
THAT A SINGLE NIGHT
COULD HAVE CONSEQUENCE
FOR SO MANY?
NOT ALL SCARS CAN BE SEEN.
BUT THEY EXIST NONETHELESS.
Isaac:
NEXT MORNING, SHE WAS GONE.
RUN AWAY AND DISAPPEARED.
Mary: OH, YOUR SWEET ABBY.
Isaac: I'LL ADMIT
TO WONDERING ON OCCASION
WHAT IT MIGHT BE LIKE
TO ONE DAY SEE HER AGAIN
OR KNOW OF HER OR HEAR HER FATE.
WOULD IT BE BETTER
OR SO MUCH WORSE?
Mary:
I CAN ASSURE YOU, ISAAC --
IF YOU WERE TO SEE HER AGAIN,
YOU WOULD FIND THOSE FEELINGS
BURIED TOO DEEPLY
FOR HOPE OF RESURRECTION.
GOOD AFTERNOON, ISAAC.
Isaac: G'DAY, MA'AM.
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
AAH!
[ GRUNTING ]
[ INSECTS BUZZING ]
WHAT IS THAT?
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
PLEASE. PLEASE.
[ MUFFLED SCREAMING ]
[ GASPS ]
[ BREATHING HEAVILY ]
Pigman: WHAT DID YOU SEE
IN THE WOODS?
Isaac: [ SCREAMS ]
Pigman:
WE KNEW YOU WEREN'T ALONE.
Woman: WE KNOW!
WE KNOW! WE KNOW!
Isaac: [ CRIES ]
Woman: WHO WAS THERE?!
WHO WAS THERE?!
Isaac: I WAS ALONE!
I WAS ALONE!
Mr. Hale: GET IT ALL.
WANT NO TRACE OF OUR EFFORTS.
THE FAULT MUST LIE
WITH HIM ALONE.
[ CROW CAWS ]
AND PUT THESE IN HIS POCKETS.
IF HE'S TO BE FOUND A WITCH,
THE GOOD REVEREND
WILL REQUIRE PROOF...
...EVIDENCE TO SEAL HIS FATE,
HMM?
WHAT IS IT?
IS THIS SYMPATHY
THAT I'M SENSING?
ONE OUTCAST TO THE OTHER?
IS THAT WHAT YOU FEEL,
YOU DECREPIT DEFORMITY?
Ghoul: MARY!
Mr. Hale: SO NOW EVEN YOU
WOULD QUESTION ME?
DO AS YOU'RE TOLD!
DOES YOUR GREAT MARY KNOW WHAT
IT IS TO WATCH WITCHES BURN?
NOTHING OF THE OLD WAYS
WHILE SHE'S WHIPPING US
TOWARD THE NEW.
A SPELL OF VITAE CUPIDO,
AND THEN WE SEND HIM
TO THE ONE PLACE IN TOWN
THAT WILL CERTAINLY
DENY HIM ENTRANCE.
THAT SHOULD GET THEIR ATTENTION.
Gloriana: [ SNIFFLES ]
Cotton: YOU'RE CRYING.
Gloriana:
[ Chuckling ] I'M NOT.
Cotton: YOU ARE.
WHAT'S WRONG?
Gloriana: IF THEY CAN HANG
A WOMAN LIKE MISS BISHOP,
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN
FOR SOMEONE LIKE ME?
Cotton: NOTHING
IS GOING TO HAPPEN TO YOU.
Gloriana:
HOW CAN YOU BE SO SURE?
JUST YESTERDAY, IT WAS ME THAT
THEY PUT BEFORE THE LEWIS GIRL.
WOULD YOU HAVE COME FORWARD
HAD I BEEN ACCUSED?
Cotton:
I FOLLOW EVERY PROTOCOL.
I ADHERE TO EVERY LETTER
OF WHAT MY FATHER TAUGHT ME.
NO ONE IS CONVICTED WITHOUT
INCONTROVERTIBLE EVIDENCE.
Gloriana: SO YOU'RE CERTAIN
MISS BISHOP WAS A WITCH?
Cotton: I'M CERTAIN...
OF THE EVIDENCE.
Gloriana: WHY DO YOU DO IT?
Cotton: WHY?
Gloriana: IS IT THAT YOU BELIEVE
THAT YOU'RE DOING GOOD?
OR IS IT THAT YOU WISH
TO PLEASE YOUR FATHER?
[ SCREAMING, GLASS SHATTERING ]
Gloriana:
IT'S ISAAC! HE'S MAD!
[ GLASS SHATTERS ]
[ SCREAMING CONTINUES ]
Cotton:
I CAN'T BE SEEN HERE.
Isaac: [ LAUGHS ]
LET ME TOUCH YOU!
[ WOMEN SCREAMING ]
GET UP!
Woman: ISAAC, NO!
Isaac: HA HA! AH HA HA!
[ WOMEN SCREAMING ]
Isaac:
[ LAUGHING MANIACALLY]
[ ISAAC SCREAMING ]
Gloriana:
ISAAC, WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
Isaac: WHAT DO YOU SEE?!
Cotton: ISAAC!
-Isaac: OH, THERE YOU ARE!
-Cotton: ISAAC!
[ WOMEN SCREAMING ]
Isaac: ISAAC THE FORNICATOR!
ISAAC THE FORNICATOR!
HIDE YOUR WIVES!
HIDE ALL YOUR SHEEP!
ISAAC THE FORNICATOR
WILL GET THEM WHEN THEY SLEEP!
ISAAC THE FORNICATOR!
HIDE YOUR WIVES!
HIDE ALL YOUR SHEEP!
ISAAC THE FORNICATOR!
HIDE YOUR WIVES!
John: ISAAC!
Isaac: HIDE YOUR SHEEP.
ISAAC THE FORNICATOR.
John: STOP! ISAAC!
Isaac: JONATHAN, IT'S NO GOOD.
IT'S NO GOOD!
John: WHAT IS NO GOOD?
Isaac: THEY SAW US.
THEY SAW US.
THEY SAW US IN THE WOODS.
John: SHUT UP.
Mr. Hale:
TAKE HIM TO THE JAIL.
Isaac:
THEY SAW US IN THE WOODS.
-THEY SAW US.
-John: Shh.
Mary: MAGISTRATE.
Mr. Hale: MRS. SIBLEY.
Mary: WHAT HAVE YOU DONE?
Mr. Hale:
THE IDIOT SAW US IN THE WOODS.
Mary: ISAAC.
SO, YOU DID THIS
WITHOUT CONSENT?
Mr. Hale: HE WASN'T ALONE.
WE'LL FIND OUT WHO WAS WITH HIM,
AND HE WILL BURN.
Mary: NO, YOU WILL DO
NOTHING FURTHER.
-Mr. Hale: WHAT?
-Mary: NOTHING!
GO HOME, MAGISTRATE.
YOU REEK OF THE WOODS.
[ HORSE NEIGHS ]
FIND ME ROSE.
Isaac: [ GROANS ]
John:
A DRUNKEN ROMP, THAT'S ALL --
A YOUNG MAN'S PREROGATIVE.
Cotton: AND YET
NO SMELL OF SPIRITS ON HIM.
John: OH, WELL, BURN HIM, THEN.
WHY WAIT?
Cotton: IF HE WAS SPELLED,
HE'S BLAMELESS IN HIS ACTIONS.
John:
YET YOU STILL HOLD HIM. WHY?
Cotton:
FOUND ON HIS PERSON.
LIKELY STOLEN TO CAST A SPELL
ON ITS OWNER.
John: ONE MINUTE, HE'S SPELLER.
THE NEXT, HE'S BEWITCHED.
MAKE UP YOUR MIND, REVEREND.
IS HE A WITCH
OR A VICTIM OF THE CRAFT?
Cotton: CHIEF INGREDIENT
OF A WITCH'S BREW.
John:
ISAAC TOOK ME INTO THOSE WOODS.
HE RISKED HIS LIFE
TO SHOW ME THE WITCHES.
WHY, IF HE WAS ONE?
Lamb:
I'VE, UH, ADMINISTRATED A TONIC
THAT'LL SETTLE HIM DOWN
AND, UH, END THE FITS.
Cotton: WHAT IS YOUR SURGEON'S
OPINION OF THE BOY'S CONDITION?
Lamb: I CAN'T SAY FOR SURE
AS TO CAUSE OR SOURCE,
BUT GOING BY HIS BABBLE,
THAT BOY IS GOOD AND TOUCHED.
Mr. Hale:
EVERY BENEFIT OF THE DOUBT,
EVERY AVENUE EXPLORED.
THE BOY IS ONE OF OUR OWN.
OUTCAST AND SHUNNED
AS HE MAY BE,
HE STILL RESIDES
IN THE BOSOM OF SALEM.
I'LL, UH --
I'LL SPEAK WITH HIM PERSONALLY.
Lamb: [ LAUGHS]
NOT TONIGHT, YOU WON'T.
Mr. Hale: AND WHY NOT?
John: LAMB GAVE ISAAC A TONIC
TO HELP HIM SLEEP.
[ HORSE NEIGHS ]
Cotton:
PROBABLY BEST, MAGISTRATE,
TO RETURN IN THE MORNING.
John: YES, MAGISTRATE.
YOU CAN HAVE YOUR PERSONAL TALK
WITH HIM THEN.
Mary:
ROSE, ABSENT THE MAGISTRATE,
WHAT CHANCE HAVE I OF HARNESSING
THE BODY'S ALLEGIANCE?
Rose: [ SIGHS ]
THE OTHERS ARE SPLIT
BETWEEN OLD AND NEW.
DIFFICULT TO PREDICT THE OUTCOME
OF SUCH A DIVIDE.
Mary: YOU'RE OLD
AND YET SOMEHOW NOT GOVERNED
BY THIS FEAR.
Rose: IT IS NOT AGE
THAT DIVIDES US, BUT AMBITION.
Mary: [ CHUCKLES]
WELL, HE'S NOT WITHOUT AMBITION.
Rose: IT CHAFES HIM
TO BEND TO A WOMAN,
BUT HE DOES SO THAT
OUR GREATER PURPOSE MAY LIVE.
Mary:
IT WAS TO BE ME THAT LED US.
Rose: IT WAS AND IT IS.
Mary: QUESTIONED AND CHALLENGED
AT EVERY TURN,
EACH AND EVERY DECISION
SOLICITING DOUBT AND SCRUTINY.
Rose:
MUCH AS WE MAY WISH IT,
PRIMACY DOES NOT LIVE
IN THE ABYSS.
Mary: IT CANNOT HAVE
ALL BEEN IN VAIN.
Rose: SIBLEY.
YOUR BABY.
Mary: IT CANNOT HAVE
ALL BEEN IN VAIN.
THIS LIFE, MY...
Rose: CHOICES.
Mary: WAS THERE A CHOICE?
OR WAS CHOICE TAKEN FROM ME?
Rose: IT'S TOO LATE NOW
TO THINK OF SUCH THINGS.
Mary: IS IT?
Rose: IT MUSTN'T HAVE BEEN EASY
SEEING HIM AGAIN.
IT IS YOURS TO DECIDE, MY GIRL,
WHAT IS IN VAIN AND WHAT IS NOT.
Mary: AND YOU WILL STAND
BEHIND MY DECISION?
Rose: UP TO A POINT.
Mary: HMM.
Rose:
THE MAGISTER'S ROOTS ARE OLD.
HE HAS SEEN MUCH
AND SUFFERED GREATLY.
DO NOT UNDERESTIMATE HIM.
[THUNDER RUMBLES ]
John: MRS. SIBLEY.
Mary: CAPTAIN ALDEN.
John: ISAAC IS NOT A WITCH.
YOU DO NOTHING,
HE'LL BE HUNG FOR ONE.
WE HAVE TO STOP THIS.
THERE'S NOTHING LEFT IN YOU.
NO FEELINGS, NO HEART.
YOU'RE NOT THE GIRL I ONCE KNEW.
Mary:
HAVE THEY QUESTIONED HIM?
John: NO.
THAT'S BECAUSE HE WAS GIVEN
A SLEEPING TONIC.
Mary:
SO HE'S SAID NOTHING.
John: NOTHING.
COTTON IS EAGER,
AND THE MAGISTRATE
WAS HARD TO TURN AWAY.
Mary: HALE? WAS THERE?
John: HE CAME STRAIGHT
TO QUESTION HIM.
Mary: YOU HAVE
MY COMPLETE ALLEGIANCE.
[ HORSE NEIGHS ]
Cotton: "OUR OPPORTUNITIES
TO DO GOOD ARE OUR TALENTS."
MY FATHER SAID THAT.
THE GREAT INCREASE MATHER.
TO STAY IM PARTIAL,
TO WEIGH WITHOUT BIAS --
IS THIS THE GOOD
I'M MEANT TO DO?
I DON'T WANT YOUR LIFE
IN MY HANDS.
HALF OF SALEM TAKES YOU
FOR A FOOL.
THE REST DISMISS YOU
AS A PERVERT.
AM I MAD TO THINK
I SAW SOMETHING IN YOU?
SOMETHING OF A MAN?
JUST THE SORT SALEM NEEDS
TO FIGHT THE DEVIL.
[THUNDER RUMBLES ]
Abigail: [ Echoing ]
ISAAC, ISAAC. ISAAC.
OH, SWEET ISAAC.
Isaac: ABBY? [ LAUGHS ]
ABBY?
Abigail: ISAAC.
Isaac: HOW DID YOU --
Abigail: Shh. MY SWEET.
TELL ME --
WHO WAS WITH YOU IN THE WOODS?
Isaac: WHO WAS WHAT?
Abigail: THE OTHER NIGHT.
WHO WAS WITH YOU?
Mary: WHO WAS WITH YOU,
MY SWEET ISAAC?
Abigail:
WHO WAS WITH YOU, MY LOVE?
NO ONE CAN HEAR US.
IF YOU LOVE ME, YOU'LL TELL ME.
Isaac: I CAN'T.
Abigail: TELL ME,
AND WE'LL BE TOGETHER AGAIN,
JUST LIKE WE WERE.
Isaac: [ SIGHS ]
I CAN'T.
Abigail: YOU CAN.
Isaac: I CAN'T.
Cotton: YOU CAN'T WHAT?
Abigail: YOU CAN. IT'S OKAY.
WHO WAS WITH YOU, MY LOVE?
Isaac: IT WAS JOHN ALDEN.
[ DOOR OPENS ]
[ DOOR CLOSES ]
Mary:
GOOD MORNING, MAGISTRATE.
Mr. Hale:
GOOD MORNING, MRS. SIBLEY.
WHAT AN UNFORESEEN DELIGHT.
WILL YOU JOIN ME IN SOME COFFEE?
W-WE'VE BEEN EXPERIMENTING
WITH A NEW BRAZILIAN BREW.
Mary: MAY WE SPEAK?
Mr. Hale:
THE LADIES ARE AT PRAYER.
Mary: HE WAS ALONE -- ISAAC.
Mr. Hale:
YOU QUESTIONED HIM? HOW?
Mary:
HE WAS ALONE IN THE WOODS.
AND THAT ENDS THIS PERSECUTION.
Mr. Hale:
AND YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY CERTAIN
THAT ISAAC WAS TELLING
THE TRUTH?
Mary: THE CIRCUMSTANCES WERE
SUCH THAT A LIE WOULD NOT --
COULD NOT -- CROSS HIS LIPS.
Mr. Hale:
WELL, THEN, THAT LEAVES NOTHING
BUT TO TASK THE SELECTMEN
TO A VOTE
AND HANG THE BOY FOR WITCHCRAFT.
Mary: NO.
Mr. Hale: SALEM WILL BE
NO POORER FOR ONE LESS NITWIT.
Mary: NO.
Mr. Hale: [ SIGHS ]
WE WILL NEVER TRULY KNOW
WHAT HE SAW,
AND WHAT HE SAW
COULD GET US ALL KILLED.
Mary: I CAN CONTROL ISAAC.
Mr. Hale:
AND WHAT OF THE GRAND RITE?
YOU WANTED ANOTHER VICTIM,
AND NOW YOU HAVE ONE.
TICK-TOCK, MRS. SIBLEY.
THE NEXT MOON FAST APPROACHES.
Mary:
I WILL NOT LET THIS HAPPEN.
Mr. Hale:
YOU'RE POWERLESS TO STOP IT.
THE COUNCIL WILL RULE
OVERWHELMINGLY AGAINST IT.
Mary: YOU WILL NOT DO THIS!
[ PLATE RATTLES ]
Mr. Hale: IT CAN ONLY BE
SENTIMENT THAT'S STOPPING YOU.
SUCH RAW EMOTION.
IT MAKES YOU VULNERABLE.
DON'T LET IT CLOUD YOUR PURPOSE.
HE HAS TO GO.
Anne: MRS. SIBLEY.
Mary: GOOD MORNING, ANNE.
Isaac: THEY AIN'T MINE.
I'VE SAID IT
10 WAYS FROM SUNDAY!
Cotton: THEN HOW DID THEY COME
TO BE ON YOUR PERSON?
Isaac: I DON'T KNOW. THE PIGMAN
MUST HAVE PUT THEM ON ME.
OR THAT BLASTED SPECT ER
FROM THE CRAGS.
Cotton: THE PIGMAN?
Isaac: HE SAW US THAT NIGHT
IN THE WOODS.
THAT'S WHY THEY'RE DOING THIS
TO ME.
DON'T YOU SEE?
THEY KNOW I SEEN SOMETHING.
[ HORSE NEIGHS ]
[ SIGHS ]
Cotton:
WHAT ELSE DO YOU REMEMBER?
-Isaac: FROM THE WOODS?
-Cotton: NO.
FROM THE OTHER NIGHT.
AT -- AT THE ROD?
Isaac: THE WHOREHOUSE?
NOTHING.
I-I-I DON'T REMEMBER ANYTHING.
I TOLD YOU...
Mary: CAPTAIN, A WORD.
MAGISTRATE HALE
WILL BE HERE SOON FOR ISAAC.
HE'S PREPARED TO FORCE A VOTE
AND HANG HIM.
YOU WILL STOP HIM.
John: HOW?
Mary: ANY WAY YOU MUST.
Mr. Hale: WELL, THE BUSINESS
OF SALEM AWAITS NO MAN.
Anne: I KNOW WHAT YOU'RE DOING,
AND I HATE YOU FOR IT.
Mrs. Hale:
UNACCEPTABLE LANGUAGE.
UTTERLY AND COMPLETELY HORRID
SENTIMENT.
Anne: MY FRIEND IS DEAD.
AND YOU RUSH OUT
TO KILL ANOTHER.
Mr. Hale: DARLING,
YOU MUST UNDERSTAND --
Anne: EVEN MARY SIBLEY,
WITH WHOM I SHARE
NOT A SINGLE COMMON OPINION,
FINDS YOUR ACTIONS VILE!
Mr. Hale: AND JUST HOW MUCH
OF MY CONVERSATION
DID YOU FEEL YOURSELF
ENTITLED TO?
Anne: ENOUGH TO KNOW THAT THIS
PERSECUTION OF ISAAC IS FOLLY!
WILL YOU KILL ANOTHER, FATHER?
IS THAT THE "BUSINESS"
YOU'RE SO EAGER TO ATTEND TO?
Mr. Hale: EVERYTHING I DO,
I DO FOR THIS FAMILY...
FOR ITS WELL-BEING
AND FOR THE GREATER GOOD
OF THIS TOWN.
[ DOOR OPENS ]
[ DOOR CLOSES ]
Anne: WHAT?
NO "HOW DARE YOU?"
"MIND YOUR ELDERS"?
Mrs. Hale: FOR ONCE,
MY DAUGHTER, I AGREE WITH YOU.
Anne: YOU DO?
Mrs. Hale: BUT IF I WERE YOU,
I'D FIND AN AVENUE
AROUND YOUR DISTASTE
FOR MRS. SIBLEY
IN ORDER TO ABSORB
HER MANNERS AND WAYS.
Anne: SHE'S DESPICABLE.
I COULD NEVER BE LIKE HER.
Mrs. Hale: SHE IS A WOMAN WHO
HAS FOUND HER WAY TO A VOICE.
Anne: LOOK HOW SHE USES IT.
Mrs. Hale: YOU COULD USE YOURS
ANY WAY YOU LIKE,
BUT YOU HAVE TO FIND IT FIRST,
UNLESS YOU WANT TO SPEND
THE REST OF YOUR LIFE
SHOUTING AT YOUR FATHER...
OR...YOUR HUSBAND.
Cotton:
WHAT DID MRS. SIBLEY REQUIRE?
John: ARE YOU CONVINCED
OF ISAAC'S INNOCENCE OR GUILT?
Cotton: I AM NOT CONVINCED
OF EITHER.
John: THEN STAY THE HELL
OUT OF MY WAY.
Mr. Hale:
WE SHALL TAKE THE BOY TO TRIAL.
John:
THAT PATH LEADS TO THE GALLOWS.
Mr. Hale:
IT'S IN NO ONE MAN'S HANDS.
John:
REALLY? WHOSE HANDS IS IT IN?
Mr. Hale: GOD'S, OF COURSE.
John: NO.
Mr. Hale:
NEED I REMIND YOU, SON,
THAT YOU ARE IMPEDING
THE VERY SAME MAN
WHO ONLY YESTERDAY
WAS YOUR SAVIOR?
John: YEAH.
THAT WAS YESTERDAY.
YOU WANT ISAAC TODAY...
YOU GOT TO GO THROUGH ME.
Mr. Hale: THE GREAT JOHN ALDEN
DISAPPEARS FOR A DECADE
AND THEN DARES TO COME BACK
AND DICTATE HOW TO RUN OUR TOWN?
TAKE HIM.
[ FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING ]
Tituba:
HE IS NOT WORTH THIS ISAAC.
Mary: THIS HAS NOTHING TO DO
WITH ISAAC.
Tituba: I KNOW. WHICH MEANS
IT HAS TO DO WITH JOHN ALDEN.
Mary: THE MAGISTRATE
WILL LEARN WHO LEADS US,
AND HE WILL ACCEPT IT.
Titu ba: OR?
[ SNAKE HISSES ]
[ GASPS ]
[ GASPING ]
[ CHOKING ]
John: [ GRUNTING ]
Cotton: HELP HIM.
Isaac: [ SCREAMS ]
Messenger: MAGISTRATE HALE,
YOUR DAUGHTER!
Mr. Hale: STOP!
GET HIM BACK IN THE CELL!
STOP! STOP!
WHAT? WHAT'S HAPPENED?
Isaac: [ GRUNTING ]
Lamb:
HAS SHE ET SOMETHING STRANGE
-FROM THE GARDEN OR THE WOODS?
-Mrs. Hale: NO.
Lamb: WAS SHE BIT
BY AN INSECT OR A CRITTER?
-MrS. Hale: NO, NO! PLEASE!
-Mr. Hale: WHAT'S HAPPENED?
Mrs. Hale:
SHE -- SHE CAN'T BREATHE!
Mr. Hale: FOR GOD'S SAKES, MAN,
DO SOMETHING!
Lamb:
SHE IS BEYOND MY ARTS.
Anne: [ CHOKING ]
Mrs. Hale: WHERE --
[ DOOR OPENS ]
Mr. Hale:
STOP IT! MAKE IT STOP!
Mary:
MAGISTRATE, GOOD AFTERNOON.
Mr. Hale: I BEG OF YOU. ISAAC
CAN GO FREE, WHATEVER YOU WANT.
JUST MAKE IT STOP.
Mary:
YOU WILL NOT QUESTION HIM.
Mr. Hale: NO.
Mary:
YOU WILL GET OUT OF MY WAY.
YOU WILL LET ME LEAD
WITHOUT FURTHER INTERFERENCE.
I WILL CHOOSE
WHO LIVES AND WHO DIES.
Mr. Hale: YES, YES.
HELP HER.
Mary: YOU SEE, MAGISTRATE,
I'VE LOST EVERYTHING IN
THIS TOWN THAT I EVER CARED FOR.
YOU, HOWEVER,
YOU HAVE EVERYTHING LEFT
TO LOSE --
A SENTIMENT
THAT MAKES YOU VULNERABLE.
Mr. Hale: [ SIGHS ]
PLEASE. MY DAUGHTER.
MY DAUGHTER.
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
Mrs. Hale: SHE'S IMPROVED.
Mr. Hale: [ SIGHS ]
I NEVER UNDERSTOOD IT BEFORE --
HOW MY PARENTS
COULD SEND ME AWAY.
WHAT COULD BE WORSE
THAN BEING APART?
CERTAINLY NOT DEATH.
NOW I KNOW A PARENT
WILL DO ANYTHING
FOR THE LIFE OF THEIR CHILD.
Mrs. Hale: WHAT DID YOU DO?
Anne: WHAT HAPPENED?
Mr. Hale:
IT'S ALL RIGHT, DARLING.
EVERYTHING'S GOING TO BE
ALL RIGHT.
[ SMOOCHES ]
John: [ GROANS ]
Cotton: A CONFESSION --
I'VE THOUGHT, ON OCCASION, MY
CHARACTER MIGHT'VE BEEN IMPROVED
BY THE INFREQUENT TUSSLE.
John: OH, YEAH.
BEATING'S DONE YOU
A WORLD OF GOOD.
WHY DID YOU HELP ME?
Cotton:
EVEN GOD DEMANDS A FAIR FIGHT.
Mr. Hale: GENTLEMEN.
THE SELECTMEN AND I FEEL,
IN THIS PARTICULAR CASE,
THAT A TRIAL AND A VOTE
WILL BE UNNECESSARY.
CLEARLY, THE LAD WAS DRUNK.
WE ARE WILLING TO LET HIM GO
AND DROP CHARGES.
UNLESS, OF COURSE,
THE REVEREND FEELS OTHERWISE.
Cotton:
A DRUNKEN ROMP IS ALL --
A YOUNG MAN'S PREROGATIVE.
WHY DON'T YOU TELL HIM?
John: WELL...
THE GOOD FOLKS OF SALEM
HAVE DECLARED YOU A DRUNK
AND NOT A WITCH.
YOU'RE SPRUNG.
Isaac: I'M FREE?
John: YEAH.
GET THE HELL OUT OF HERE.
Isaac: PRETTY SURE NO ONE'S
EVER STOOD FOR ME BEFORE.
MAKES IT HARD TO KNOW
WHAT TO SAY.
YOU SAVED MY LIFE.
Cotton: EXCELLENT NEWS.
ISAAC HAS BEEN SPARED.
Gloriana: WHAT? HOW?
Cotton: THERE SIMPLY WASN'T THE
REQUIRED EVIDENCE TO CONVICT.
I TOLD YOU I WAS THOROUGH
AND THAT THE INNOCENT...
HAVE NO CAUSE FOR ALARM.
DOES THAT NOT GIVE YOU PEACE?
Gloriana: THAT IS TODAY,
BUT WHAT OF THE DAYS
THAT FOLLOW?
Cotton:
WE WILL TAKE THEM AS THEY COME.
Gloriana: WE WILL?
Cotton: I TOLD YOU --
NO HARM WILL COME TO YOU.
Gloriana: YOU CAN'T BE SURE.
Cotton: I CAN.
Gloriana:
DO YOU EVER WONDER?
Cotton: WHAT?
Gloriana:
IF WE COULD LEAVE THIS PLACE?
IF WE COULD FORGET SALEM
AND ITS WITCHES?
IF WE COULD HAVE
A DIFFERENT LIFE?
Cotton:
I BELIEVE I'M DOING GOOD.
Gloriana: I KNOW.
AND YOUR FATHER
WOULD BE SO VERY PROUD.
[ BELL TOLLING ]
Mary: ISAAC HAS BEEN FREED?
John: YES.
Mary: GOOD.
John:
YOU SHOULD SEE THE MILITIA.
Mary: I'M GRATEFUL.
FOR ISAAC.
John: OKAY, THEN.
Mary: JOHN...
WE WERE FORTUNATE TODAY,
BUT WE MIGHT NOT BE SO LUCKY
IN DAYS TO COME.
IF YOU INSIST ON STAYING...
...YOU MUST UNDERSTAND
I CANNOT PROTECT YOU.
George: [ GARGLES ]
-- Captions by VITAC --